title: Update
date: 2007/6/8 10:25:27
id: 271
photos:
- /journal_images/mini-DSC00181-journal.jpg|The completed dining room in our house
---
It's been a long time again since the last time I posted an update.  Two weekends ago, we drove out to Iowa for the Memorial Day weekend.  Andrea's cousin Travis got married on Saturday the 26th.  It was a beautiful ceremony at the [Iowa Arboretum](http://www.iowaarboretum.org).  Even though the weather was beautiful on Saturday, they had to move indoors for the ceremony because the location they had been planning on was under water because of all of the rain in the preceeding days.  The rest of the weekend we just relaxed and went to see Pirates of the Caribbean with Andrea's parents before coming home on Monday.  Photos from the weekend are in my [Photo Album](PhotoAlbum.aspx?ID=TCWEDDING20070526).

Then this past weekend we hosted two barbeques at our house now that we are mostly done moving in.  On Saturday we had 14 friends over and had make your own kabobs for dinner, then on Sunday we had my grandparents over for pork chops on the grill.  It was the first time that my grandma had been back since they moved out in March.  They both really liked what we had done with the house, and my grandma even said it was so nice that she wanted to know if she could move back in.  I've finally managed to get some photos of the house up in the photo section, so check them out in the ["Our Home" section of the Photo Album](PhotoAlbum.aspx?ID=HOME).