title: The Fates Smile on Colorado for One More Day
date: 2007/9/29 20:37:15
id: 298
photos:
- /journal_images/DSC01393-journal.jpg|George Hypolite directs the CU Marching Band after CU upsets #3 Oklahoma
---
Today, Andrea and I went up to Boulder for CU Homecoming and the annual CU Alumni Band.  The morning was filled with rehearsal and a catered breakfast for the alumni.  We then marched over to the stadium with the CU Band for the 11:30 kickoff versus #3 Oklahoma. 

The game didn't start too well for CU.  After an interception, OU led 7-0.  CU answered to make it 7-7 but OU struck back to make it 14-7.  OU added another field goal and CU trailed 17-7 at halftime.  After the half, another CU interception resulted in a 24-7 lead for OU.  But then the tide turned.  Eberhart hit a field goal to make it 24-10.  After an interception, CU scored on 4th down to make it 24-17 on the first play of the 4th quarter.  Then with about 4 minutes left, Hawkins hit Dusty Sprague in the endzone to tie the game at 24 after OU fumbled a CU punt.  The defense held and then CU marched down the field one more time.  As time expired,  Kevin Eberhart hit a game winning 45 yard field goal and the students rushed the field as CU knocked off #3 Oklahoma 27-24 in one of the best college football games I've ever been at.

At the same time, the Padres blew a 9th inning lead and lost to the Brewers in 11 innings, giving the Rockies new life.  Then tonight the Rockies beat the Diamondbacks 11-1, leaving the Rockies tied with the Phillies and Mets at 1 game behind the Padres in the NL Wild Card race with 1 game to play.  Andrea and I have tickets to the Rockies game tomorrow.  One game to play, and to paraphrase Spamalot, which we saw on Wednesday, "We're not dead yet!"

**Go Buffs!!!**

**Go Rockies!!!**