title: Purple Playoffs!
date: 2007/10/1 22:53:12
id: 300
photos:
- /journal_images/DSC01484-journal.jpg|Purple Playoffs!!!
---
In the best baseball game I've ever been to, the Rockies just beat the San Diego Padres in 13 innings to claim the NL Wild Card.  The playoff was only the 7th one game playoff in major league history.  Things started off well for the Rox against Padres starter, Jake Peavy, when they scored 2 in the first and then added a third in the second with Yorvit Torrealba's 8th home run of the year.  The Padres came back with 5 in the 4th including a grand slam by Adrian Gonzales.  The Rockies countered again, taking a 6-5 lead by the 6th.  The lead should have been 7-5 after a Garrett Atkins home run was called back by the umpires to a double.  Then in the 8th, Matt Holliday misplayed a fly ball into a double, leading to a 6-6 tie. 

The extra innings were completely nerve wracking.  The Rockies walked the leadoff batter in the 11th and 12th innings, but Matt Herges managed to escape without any damage.  Unfortunately the Rockies couldn't get anything against the San DIego bullpen.  Then in the 13th inning, Jorge Julio comes in and walks the leadoff batter and promptly gives up a 2 run home run to Scott Hairston and Coors Field visibly deflated.  After another single, Julio was gone without recording an out and was booed off the field.  The Rockies turned to Ramon Ortiz who got the next 3 outs without incident.

Then we go to the bottom of the 13th.  The Padres bring in all-time saves leader, Trevor Hoffman, to face the top of the Rockies order.  Kaz Matsui leads off with a double.  Then soon to be Rookie of the Year, Troy Tulowitzki laces another double into left field.  Matt Holliday comes to the plate to the chant of M-V-P, and laces a triple off the out of town scoreboard.  The Rockies have tied it up with nobody out!  The Padres walk Todd Helton to pitch to Jamey Carroll.  Carroll swings at the first pitch, driving it into the outfield.  After the catch, Holliday comes charging home, just beating the tag.  The Rockies win 9-8 in 13 innings to clinch the first playoff appearance in 12 years!  Pandemonium in Coors Field!

The first playoff game is in Philly at 1:30pm on Wednesday.  I already have my NLDS and NLCS tickets for the Rockies home games.

**Go Rockies!!!**