title: Update
date: 2008/1/18 10:04:26
id: 324
---
Once again it's been way too long since I posted an update on here.  Last Saturday, January 12, was my 29th birthday.  Andrea made her wonderful quiche lorraine for breakfast.  We then went to see I Am Legend in the afternoon.  It was a good movie.  I liked it a lot more than Andrea and I think she thought it was a little slow.  I enjoyed the movie, but I would have preferred a little more development of the back story which would have cleared up some of the "whys" in the movie. 

After the movie, we got dressed up and then went to [Fruition](http://www.fruitionrestaurant.com/) for dinner.  I had the Pasta Carbonara starter and the Maple Leaf Farms Duck Breast and Andrea had the Green Oak Leaf Salad and the Chicken Cordon Bleu.  I also had the Deep Dish Bourbon Pecan Pie and Andrea had the Carmelized Banana Pudding for dessert.  It was an excellent dinner and I would highly recommend it.  We then went home and had a slice of the truly excellent German Chocolate Cake that Andrea had made from scratch for me.

It's also been a busy week since then.  Grandma and Grandpa invited us to brunch at their place on Sunday.  Then Tuesday evening was filled with Fujitsu and Turnverein meetings.  It was nice to meet my new boss, Yarub Al-Ahmad, for the first time and I was impressed by him.  Wednesday I had a number of meetings at church, and tonight we're going to the Avalanche vs. Blackhawks game.  It's the first Avs game I've been to in over a year.

I hope everyone is doing well.  Happy Birthday to Kim, Lacy, and Bethany who have all had birthdays since my last post!