title: The Morning After
date: 2008/11/5 14:19:58
alias: blog/394/
photos:
- http://www.s-church.net/journal_images/TheMorningAfter_C4A9/PresidentElectEdStein.png|
---
My friend, Dave, sent me this cartoon this morning by [Ed Stein of the Rocky Mountain News](http://blogs.rockymountainnews.com/denver/stein/2008/11/presidentelect.html).  I think it perfectly captures my sentiments this morning.  We are seeing a new dawn rising in this country.  One where hope triumphs over fear and where the weight of one's actions triumphs over the color of one's skin. 

While I am truly hopeful for the direction that we are now headed, much hard work remains.  It is easy to get caught up in the emotion of the moment and forget that change does not happen overnight.  It has taken this country over 200 years to get where we are today and the problems of today will not vanish in the blink of an eye.  We stand at the precipice of a new era in American politics, and it is now our time to demand that responsible action is taken; to not forget that difficult choices lie ahead and that shared sacrifice will be required from us all. 

I truly hope that we can move beyond the blind partisanship and realize that our neighbors, red or blue, all desire what is best for America.  While we may have our principled differences in policy, it is imperative that we remember that fact.  Politics need not be like rooting for your favorite team, but should be about rooting for a better America.

Change has come to America!  Let us work together to keep moving toward the America we all deserve.  Quoting Micah 6:8, "He has showed you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you? To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God."