title: This is Baton Rouge, right?
date: 2008/12/11 12:20:00
id: 400
photos:
- http://www.s-church.net/journal_images/WindowsLiveWriter/ThisisBatonRougeright_932F/BatonRougeWinterStorm20081211_3.jpg|Snow in Baton Rouge - December 11, 2008
- http://www.s-church.net/journal_images/WindowsLiveWriter/ThisisBatonRougeright_932F/Baton%20Rouge%20Snow%20-%2020081211_56.png|Snow in my mom's back yard - December 11, 2008
---
My mom woke up this morning to four and a half inches of snow . in Baton Rouge, Louisiana!  The power's out at there house in Zachary and she can't go to work because all of the bridges over the Mississippi are all closed.  The National Weather Service has even issued a Winter Storm Warning for all of central Louisiana!

> URGENT - WINTER WEATHER MESSAGE  
> NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE NEW ORLEANS LA  
> 809 AM CST THU DEC 11 2008  
> A WINTER STORM WARNING REMAINS IN EFFECT UNTIL NOON CST TODAY.  
> A STRONG AND COLD UPPER LEVEL STORM SYSTEM COMBINED WITH LOW  
> PRESSURE OVER THE FLORIDA PANHANDLE WILL CAUSE RAIN TO MIX WITH  
> SLEET AND SNOW THIS MORNING ACROSS EAST CENTRAL LOUISIANA...  
> SOUTHEAST LOUISIANA AND EXTREME SOUTHWEST MISSISSIPPI AND COASTAL  
> MISSISSIPPI. THE WINTRY MIX HAS CHANGED OVER TO MOSTLY SNOW...  
> DURING OF THE MORNING RUSH HOUR ACROSS BATON ROUGE AND THIS SNOW  
> IS EXPECTED TO SPREAD EAST THIS MORNING.  
> TWO TO FOUR INCHES OF SNOW ACCUMULATION WILL BE POSSIBLE ON  
> GRASSY AREAS...AND ELEVATED ROAD SURFACES LIKE BRIDGES AND  
> OVERPASSES. SNOW ACCUMULATION OF TWO INCHES ON HIGHWAYS AND  
> ROADWAYS...ESPECIALLY INTERSTATE 12 AND INTERSTATE 55\. MANY  
> ACCIDENTS WERE REPORTED BY STATE POLICE IN THE BATON ROUGE AREA  
> AND THIS THREAT WILL SPREAD EAST.  
> A WINTER STORM WARNING MEANS SIGNIFICANT AMOUNTS OF SNOW...  
> SLEET...AND ICE ARE EXPECTED OR OCCURRING. STRONG WINDS ARE ALSO  
> POSSIBLE.  THIS WILL MAKE TRAVEL VERY HAZARDOUS OR IMPOSSIBLE.

Snow in Louisiana???  Perish the thought!

_**Update - 12:20 pm:**_

The photo below is from my mom's back yard this morning.