title: Stirling Birthday Released!
date: 2009/6/25 20:40:56
alias: blog/442/
photos:
- /journal_images/WindowsLiveWriter/StirlingBirthdayReleased_130E6/StirlingBirthdayHomeScreen_fd4de8c1-643e-433e-b2fe-2ff300a45072.png|Stirling Birthday Home Screen
---
Stirling Birthday 1.0.3463 is the first public release of Stirling Birthday. Stirling Birthday is an app that displays all of the birthday and anniversary records in the contacts on a Windows Mobile 6 Standard or higher smartphone. The default view is to show all upcoming birthdays and anniversaries for the next thirty days. Stirling Birthday can also show all of the birthdays and anniversaries for the entire year.

Stirling Birthday also provides a home screen plugin for the Windows Mobile 6.1 Sliding Panels home screen. There is an option to have the home screen plugin update once per day at 1 am local time. The home screen plugin option will only be available on Windows Mobile 6.1 Standard with the Sliding Panels (CHome) home screen installed. By default, the home screen plugin will install at the bottom of the home screen. The order can be changed using a program like CHome Config. If you choose to uninstall the application, uncheck the Auto Update Home Screen and Show Home Screen Plugin options in the application before uninstalling.

Stirling Birthday requires a minimum of Windows Mobile 6 Standard with the Microsoft .NET Compact Framework 3.5.  The home screen plugin requires Windows Mobile 6.1 with the Sliding Panels home screen.

[Download Stirling Birthday](/SmartphoneSoftware.aspx?ID=5)

Also, to celebrate all the release of Stirling Birthday, all of my other Pocket PC and Smartphone software is on sale for $2 until August 21, 2009!