title: Buffalo - Part 2
date: 2004/4/1 15:07:23
alias: blog/47/
---
To continue the Buffalo trip story, on Saturday we traveled up to Niagara-on-the-Lake, ON.  The morning was pretty dreary since it was foggy, and rainy.  Andrea and I visited 5 wineries around the town and then went and wandered through Niagara-on-the-Lake for a while.  It's really a beautiful area up there and I can just imagine that it would be stunning in the spring or fall.  The icewines they have up there are incredible.  They leave the grapes on the vine and allow them to freeze and thaw multiple times and then harvest and press them at -10<sup>o</sup> C.  The result is an extremely sweet, yet full-bodied wine.  Unfortunately they're also very expensive, but I bought a small sample pack of 3 at the Peller Estates winery anyway.

After leaving Niagara-on-the-Lake, we drove down the Niagara Parkway and stopped at the Niagara Whirlpool.  It's supposed to be the largest whirlpool in the world, but on the day we were there, the flow was too low for it to be cycling.  Then we continued down and drove back into the United States at Niagara Falls. 

Later in the night, we went to the UB Barrister's Ball.  It's basically the law school equivalent of prom.  It was a lot of fun getting to meet all of her friends from there.  Her friend Jamie hung out with us all night (hence Andrea's "two dates" comment).

Finally, on Sunday, we went to Anchor Bar in downtown Buffalo for lunch.  Anchor Bar is the restaurant that invented the Buffalo Wing.  And I must admit that they were easily the best wings I've ever had.  They fry them first out there which results in a much crispier wing than I've ever had in Denver.  So anyway, that just about sums up the rest of my trip to Buffalo.  Hopefully I'll be posting pictures in the next day or so since I'm way behind on that.